docs/data.rst, before:

========
Data
========

Medical Images
--------------------

The medical images will be provided trough Ilias.

The dataset consists of 3 T head MRIs of 100 unrelated subjects from the `Human Connectome Project (HCP) <https://www.humanconnectome.org/>`_ dataset of healthy volunteers [2]. For each subject, the following data is available:

- T1-weighted MR image volume, skull-stripped and non-skull-stripped (but defaced for anonymization [3])
- T2-weighted MR image volume, processed the same way as the T1 image
- Transform file from subject to MNI-atlas space [4]
- White matter ground truth labels:

  - 1: cortical white matter
  - 2: left hemisphere cortical white matter
  - 3: right hemisphere cortical white matter

- FreeSurfer-generated brain mask label volumes

The ground truth labels are generated by FreeSurfer [e.g., 5]  and are not manual expert annotations.

Toy Example
--------------------

The toy example data files in the data directory are taken from the Sherwood library [1].

References
--------------------

[1] Microsoft Research, "Sherwood C++ and C# code library for decision forests", 2012. [Online]. Available: http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/52d5b9c3-a638-42a1-94a5-d549e2251728/. [Accessed: 16-Mar-2016].

[2] Van Essen, D.C., Smith, S.M., Barch, D.M., Behrens, T.E., Yacoub, E., Ugurbil, K. and Wu-Minn HCP Consortium, 2013. `The WU-Minn human connectome project: an overview <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811913005351>`_. *Neuroimage*, *80*, pp.62-79.

[3] Milchenko, M. and Marcus, D., 2013. `Obscuring surface anatomy in volumetric imaging data <https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12021-012-9160-3>`_. *Neuroinformatics*, *11*(1), pp.65-75.

[4] Mazziotta, J., Toga, A., Evans, A., Fox, P., Lancaster, J., Zilles, K., Woods, R., Paus, T., Simpson, G., Pike, B. and Holmes, C., 2001. `A probabilistic atlas and reference system for the human brain: International Consortium for Brain Mapping (ICBM) <http://rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/356/1412/1293.short>`_. *Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences*, *356*(1412), pp.1293-1322.

[5] Fischl, B., Salat, D.H., Busa, E., Albert, M., Dieterich, M., Haselgrove, C., Van Der Kouwe, A., Killiany, R., Kennedy, D., Klaveness, S. and Montillo, A., 2002. `Whole brain segmentation: automated labeling of neuroanatomical structures in the human brain <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S089662730200569X>`_. Neuron, 33(3), pp.341-355.

Commit message:

docs(data): added label description and file names

docs/data.rst, after:

========
Data
========

Medical Images
--------------------

The medical images will be provided trough Ilias.

The dataset consists of 3T head MRIs of 100 unrelated subjects from the `Human Connectome Project (HCP) <https://www.humanconnectome.org/>`_ dataset of healthy volunteers [2]. For each subject, the following data is available:

- T1-weighted MR image volume, skull-stripped and non-skull-stripped (but defaced for anonymization [3])
- T2-weighted MR image volume, processed the same way as the T1 image
- Both modalities in native subject-space and in MNI-atlas space [4]

The following labels are available:
  - 0: Background
  - 1: Cortical and cerebellar white matter
  - 2: Cerebral and cerebellar cortex / grey matter
  - 3: Ventricles (lateral, inferior lateral, third and fourth ventricles merged)

The ground truth labels are generated by FreeSurfer [e.g., 5]  and are not manual expert annotations. 
As you will see when opening some example label maps, the automated labelling is not perfect. This is a common problem in the medical analysis domain, often real expert annotations are sparse and a "silver-standard" ground truth has to be used.

In every subject-data directory you find the following files:
  - T1native.nii.gz: T1weighted MR image in native subject space, not skull-stripped and not bias field corrected.
  - T1native_biasfieldcorr.nii.gz: T1weighted MR image in native subject space, not skull-stripped, but bias field corrected.
  - T1native_biasfieldcorr_noskull.nii.gz: T1weighted MR image in native subject space, skull-stripped and bias field corrected.
  - All of the above additionally...
	- for the T2-weighted image (e.g. T2native.nii.gz)
	- in MNI atlas space (e.g. T1mni_biasfieldcorr.nii.gz)
  - Brain masks in subject- and atlas-space
  - Bias field masks in subject- and atlas-space
  - Label maps in subject- and atlas-space
  

Toy Example
--------------------

The toy example data files in the data directory are taken from the Sherwood library [1].

References
--------------------

[1] Microsoft Research, "Sherwood C++ and C# code library for decision forests", 2012. [Online]. Available: http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/52d5b9c3-a638-42a1-94a5-d549e2251728/. [Accessed: 16-Mar-2016].

[2] Van Essen, D.C., Smith, S.M., Barch, D.M., Behrens, T.E., Yacoub, E., Ugurbil, K. and Wu-Minn HCP Consortium, 2013. `The WU-Minn human connectome project: an overview <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811913005351>`_. *Neuroimage*, *80*, pp.62-79.

[3] Milchenko, M. and Marcus, D., 2013. `Obscuring surface anatomy in volumetric imaging data <https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12021-012-9160-3>`_. *Neuroinformatics*, *11*(1), pp.65-75.

[4] Mazziotta, J., Toga, A., Evans, A., Fox, P., Lancaster, J., Zilles, K., Woods, R., Paus, T., Simpson, G., Pike, B. and Holmes, C., 2001. `A probabilistic atlas and reference system for the human brain: International Consortium for Brain Mapping (ICBM) <http://rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/356/1412/1293.short>`_. *Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences*, *356*(1412), pp.1293-1322.

[5] Fischl, B., Salat, D.H., Busa, E., Albert, M., Dieterich, M., Haselgrove, C., Van Der Kouwe, A., Killiany, R., Kennedy, D., Klaveness, S. and Montillo, A., 2002. `Whole brain segmentation: automated labeling of neuroanatomical structures in the human brain <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S089662730200569X>`_. Neuron, 33(3), pp.341-355.
