docs/syllabus.rst, before:

========
Syllabus
========

This is the syllabus of to the medical image analysis laboratory (MIALab). The laboratory consists of theoretical parts (T), practical work (P), and homework / assignments (H).

Week 1: Introduction
--------------------

20.09.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(T\) Overview and aim
- \(T\) Medical problem / Image data
- \(P\) Display medical image data with ITK-SNAP
- \(P\) Install the Python environment
- \(P\) 2-D decision forest toy example

Week 2: Medical Image Analysis Pipeline
------------------------------------------------------------

27.09.2017 / Reyes, Balsiger, Jungo

- \(T\) Introduction to the medical image analysis pipeline
- \(T\) Brief machine learning introduction
- \(T\) Overview of available experiments
- \(H\) Formation of groups and experiment selection

Week 3: Software Development Tools
----------------------------------------

04.10.2017 / Jungo, Suter

- \(T\) Introduction to PyCharm, GitHub, and Trello
- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 4: Coding
--------------------

11.10.2017 / Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / working on the project
- \(H\) GitHub repository links

Week 5: Coding
--------------------

18.10.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 6: Coding
--------------------

25.10.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 7: Presenting
------------------------------

01.11.2017 / Reyes

- \(T\) Introduction on presenting
- \(P\) Coding / Writing

Week 8: Midterm Presentations
------------------------------

08.11.2017 / Reyes, Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(H\) Brief presentation about approach / progress / challenges / **insights** (max. 7 minutes)
- \(P\) Discussion, feedback, and input
- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 9: MEDICA
--------------------

15.11.2017 / -

Week 10: Data Visualization
------------------------------

22.11.2017 / Reyes

- \(T\) Introduction on scientific data visualization (plotting), design guidelines
- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 11: Writing
-----------------

29.11.2017 / Reyes

- \(T\) Introduction on paper writing
- \(T\) Brief introduction on LaTeX
- \(P\) Coding / Writing

Week 12: Coding
--------------------

06.12.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / Writing

Week 13: Coding
----------------

13.12.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / Writing
- \(H\) Feedback on lecture

Week 14: Presentation
----------------------

20.12.2017 / Reyes, Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(H\) Presentations (max. 12 minutes + 3 minutes questions)
- \(H\) Discussion of overall results

7th January 2018
-----------------

- \(H\) Submission of written report and final code

Commit message:

docs(syllabus): remove writing in week 7

docs/syllabus.rst, after:

========
Syllabus
========

This is the syllabus of to the medical image analysis laboratory (MIALab). The laboratory consists of theoretical parts (T), practical work (P), and homework / assignments (H).

Week 1: Introduction
--------------------

20.09.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(T\) Overview and aim
- \(T\) Medical problem / Image data
- \(P\) Display medical image data with ITK-SNAP
- \(P\) Install the Python environment
- \(P\) 2-D decision forest toy example

Week 2: Medical Image Analysis Pipeline
------------------------------------------------------------

27.09.2017 / Reyes, Balsiger, Jungo

- \(T\) Introduction to the medical image analysis pipeline
- \(T\) Brief machine learning introduction
- \(T\) Overview of available experiments
- \(H\) Formation of groups and experiment selection

Week 3: Software Development Tools
----------------------------------------

04.10.2017 / Jungo, Suter

- \(T\) Introduction to PyCharm, GitHub, and Trello
- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 4: Coding
--------------------

11.10.2017 / Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / working on the project
- \(H\) GitHub repository links

Week 5: Coding
--------------------

18.10.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 6: Coding
--------------------

25.10.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 7: Presenting
------------------------------

01.11.2017 / Reyes, Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(T\) Introduction on presenting
- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 8: Midterm Presentations
------------------------------

08.11.2017 / Reyes, Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(H\) Brief presentation about approach / progress / challenges / **insights** (max. 7 minutes)
- \(P\) Discussion, feedback, and input
- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 9: MEDICA
--------------------

15.11.2017 / -

Week 10: Data Visualization
------------------------------

22.11.2017 / Reyes

- \(T\) Introduction on scientific data visualization (plotting), design guidelines
- \(P\) Coding / working on the project

Week 11: Writing
-----------------

29.11.2017 / Reyes

- \(T\) Introduction on paper writing
- \(T\) Brief introduction on LaTeX
- \(P\) Coding / Writing

Week 12: Coding
--------------------

06.12.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / Writing

Week 13: Coding
----------------

13.12.2017 / Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(P\) Coding / Writing
- \(H\) Feedback on lecture

Week 14: Presentation
----------------------

20.12.2017 / Reyes, Balsiger, Jungo, Suter

- \(H\) Presentations (max. 12 minutes + 3 minutes questions)
- \(H\) Discussion of overall results

7th January 2018
-----------------

- \(H\) Submission of written report and final code
